lnav: add page (#6451) (#6613)
tldr-pages/tldr: pages/linux/lnav.md

# lnav

> Advanced log file viewer to analyze logs with little to no setup.

> > More information: <https://lnav.org>.

Reviewer: Maybe is better if we link directly to the cli docs
```suggestion
> More information: <https://docs.lnav.org/en/latest/cli.html>.
```

> - View logs of a program, the arguments can be log files, directories or URLs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- View logs of a program, specifying log files, directories or URLs:
```

> `lnav {{path/to/logdir}}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`lnav {{path/to/log_directory}}`
```

Author: Yeah, it looks more sensible now. Thanks for suggestion.

> `lnav {{path/to/log_directory}}`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`lnav {{path/to/log_or_directory|URL}}`
```

> - View logs of remote host host1.example.com (SSH passwordless login required):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- View logs of a specific remote host (SSH passwordless login required):
```

> `lnav {{ssh user@host1.example.com:/var/log/syslog.log}}`

Reviewer 3: Is there any good reason to put this in a single token instead of multiple ones? I'd do it like this:

```suggestion
`lnav {{ssh}} {{user}}@{{host1.example.com}}:{{/var/log/syslog.log}}`
```

Reviewer 2: Would `host.example.com` also work? It's just a tiny detail, but still.

> - Validate log format of log files against the configuration and report any errors:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Validate the format of log files against the configuration and report any errors:
```

> `lnav -C {{path/to/logdir}}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`lnav -C {{path/to/log_directory}}`
```
